# hackaTUM 2021

This project is part of the [**hackaTUM 2021**](https://hack.tum.de) Hackathon and takes on the challenge given by SAP.

## SAP challenge

### Description

*Business Analytics meets Generation Z – Data Stories for the next Gen of Decision Makers*

*Inspired by the popularity of short-form videos in social media, we challenge you to explore new ways of presenting analytic business insights. How might we turn traditional dashboards and reports into self-explaining, animated data stories for Gen-Z decision makers of tomorrow? Show us how you
would build an exemplary pipeline that converts data into insights, and insights into short-form animated content using state-of-the-art data science and web technologies.*

[Challenge repository](https://github.com/michaelwittmann/hackatum2021)

### Dataset

The [given dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/berkayalan/retail-sales-data) contains 3 years of sales records from some retail company, info about their products and stores.

## Project

### Goal

Our project is called "**Storey** - Weekly animated report for your store". As the name implies, we focused on creating insights and reports for a single store to help an imaginary store owner / manager to understand what's going on without for example having to understand a far to detailed and
complicated dashboard. So the goal of the project is to generate insights on a weekly basis and analyse important or unexpected events and generate a few short data stories. We present these data stories in form of short statements with very abstracted diagrams for context purposes.

### Repository

This repository contains the code for generating the animated data stories. It is pretty flexible and easy to use and expand, because all the configuration is done in a single array.

The configuration looks like this:

```typescript jsx
const pages: IPage[] = [
    {
        statement: '*Prices in 2019 were on average *41% *higher than in 2018. Therefore the amount of sales was slightly lower.',
        chartType: ChartType.BAR,
        values: [12.144842, 17.290347, 24.388591],
        labels: ['2017', '2018', '2019'],
    },
    {
        statement: 'Average *revenue *per *day has increased *25% yearly.',
        chartType: ChartType.LINE,
        values: [1.735577, 2.049807, 2.581987],
        labels: ['2017', '2018', '2019'],
    },
    {
        statement: '*October 2019 has been *5% better than *September in terms of *revenue.',
        chartType: ChartType.PIE,
        values: [7339, 7713],
        labels: ['Sep', 'Oct'],
    },
];
```

### Possible future

It is pretty expand on this project by simply using something like a NoSQL database to store and get the page configuration from in order to automate the process. This database could be filled by automatic and dynamic data science / data analysis code which is searching for interesting insights.

The stories generated by this code could be recorded and sent to the store owners / managers or sent directly as an email.

And because this codebase is just a framework for animating statements with charts, it is possible to use it for whatever use case you have.
